Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this lecture we're going to talk specifically about dedicated graphics cards.
There are two types of graphics cards are going to work really well with Blender and that's ones by
MDA and and video.
You may also think you've got a graphics card that's dedicated Iva and Intel Iris or Intel HD.
Unfortunately they are not dedicated graphics cards.
They're built into your CPM.
The first thing I'm going to do and this is applicable to the Windows environment.
I'm not sure how you do this on Linux.
So please do let us know in the Q and A's if you're having trouble knowing this on Linux.
I do suspect that if you have a Linux based system you already know this.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm going to press the Windows key and the Aki at the same time when I've done
that I can type in M.S. info 32 if I can go ahead and press okay we get a system summary now I can see
here that I've got a processor.
This is the CPO of the system minds a seventy seven hundred K so I know that I've got four cores and
eight logical processes or eight threads and we'll see as we use cycle therapy eight little squares
that appear which is where and why I have eight of them.
If you've got a slightly different system you might have to cause forth red you might have four cores
for threads it doesn't matter but basically the more cause you have the faster cycles will be.
Now let's have a look at our components and go to display now in this particular section.
I have two graphics cards listed.
I have an end video G4 city X 10 80.
Now you may see and the radio on our 7 or Vegas 64 or something else in that list.
And further down we also see that I've got my built in graphics as well these HD graphics 630.
Now one thing I will say is that if you've got this dedicated graphics card here it doesn't necessarily
mean it's going to be faster than your CPSU.
That's a pitfall.
Sometimes does occur.
You may have a really good CPO and a very basic graphics card which means that cycles will actually
be faster just using your CPA but let's dive into blender now and have a look at how this is all manifested.
So if we go to edit and user preferences or just preferences now and go to the system tab when we're
in the system tab we've got a couple of options along the top CUDA which you can see here under cycles
render devices CUDA is end Vidya only open S.L. Is an d and I have seen some Intel chips appearing on
that list as well.
So this is what you'd need to select if you have AMG and you want to use that graphics card to help
accelerate your rendering.
I am using CUDA and we can see here actually lists my processor and the dedicated graphics card itself.
Now B cos it's also driving my display my screen in front of me.
What that can mean is when you're rendering with cycles the system can lock up and become unresponsive
or very jerky and slow because it's busy rendering your render rather than displaying images on the
screen.
Now what you can do with Blender is you can stack multiple GP use if you're fortunate enough to have
multiple GP use.
You can put them all inside your machine and tick them all.
I'm not in that position so I've just got the one and because I use most of my screen recording software
uses software based encoding I'm not going to put a tick in this box because what you can do is pair
up your dedicated graphics card and the CPE you together to hopefully accelerate.
Now there is one caveat with this and that is that my g text Haiti is very fast my eye seven seventy
seven hundred K is also very fast but it won't be as fast as just the G text ten eighty so if I wasn't
recording this video right now even though I've got the option of rendering where both of them for me
this would be unbalanced the GTA X tonight you would be waiting too long to render with the process
are also helping us out however towards the end of this section we're going to be rendering out an animation
and there's a couple of tips and tricks that we can use where we do utilise both of these but with different
instances of blender but we need to jump through a couple of hoops to make sure that's all set up and
working and it's not just on the same machine it can be on multiple machines as well so that's another
way of rendering out things really quickly.
Of course if you don't want to use this we can just click none and if you click none you may think Well
how's it going to render if I select none.
Well it still will be able to it'll just use the CPA.
Now you may find that makes blender more stable doing it that way.
And certainly some of the more experimental features which we may play with later on you may have to
use the CPE you to render and not the GP use.
One final thing I want to quickly go over the difference between CUDA and open S.L. when you go ahead
and render something we've CUDA all of the special stuff that CUDA uses is already compiled and ready
to go.
So you will often see the more complex scenes that my scene starts rendering quite quickly with open
S.L..
It has to compile all of these special bits and bobs before it starts rendering.
So if you add something to your material it will have to add it and compiler and then it will start
rendering.
So that initial render with open S.L. can be a lot slower than the initial render with CUDA because
it's already there and ready to go.
So I'm going to leave mindset as cuda.
Now one of the things that has changed is the blender preferences now.
Auto saves which is something to bear in mind because before you've had to explicitly say yes I want
these settings saved and you can see under the hamburger in the lower left that we've got some options
here including loading the factory settings or saving the current state.
I'm going to leave auto save preferences turned on but one of the things I'm also going to do whilst
I'm here an assistant tab I believe I've already set this once but obviously during the changes that
blender 2.8 happened or perhaps I did it on my other computer I can't remember but the undo steps 32
No no no.
I've got lots of memory on my machine so I'm going to crank 4 up as high as it will go.
I much prefer being able to undo something if I've made a mistake and 32 different undo steps.
That's not a lot of undoing and I don't need to save that.
Now one thing at the very bottom here there is this little up arrow if you do click that it brings the
header up and here the hamburger goes to the other side but also it gives you the option.
As with everything in blender of changing this particular type of window so you can bear that in mind
whenever you're trying to edit the user preferences you don't even have to go all the way up to edit
user preferences.
I could have gone to the edit to type dropdown and just selected preferences straight.
Boom.
There we go straight in.
Not entirely useful for what we want to do in the header at this point has gone to the top of the window
rather than being at the bottom unless switches back to the 3D viewport.
Brilliant.
So how do we use cycles once we're in blender.
Well we click on the little camera icon on the properties panel and change our render engine from eevee
to cycles.
Now in general I'm going to switch over to cycles when I'm checking out lighting but continue to work
in evey just so the display updates nice and quickly for us.
However as we get further through the section I'm going to spend more and more time in cycles.
So what I'd like to do over the next couple of lectures is go through the difference in lighting reflections
and also talking about optimizing cycles rendering times because they are pretty well known for taking
a long time.
So that's it for this lecture we've got everything set up for a dedicated graphics card.
We've got cycles selected as the default rendering engine for the moment and of course that just applies
to the scene we're currently in.
Now if I wanted that to apply to every new scene that we've got I can go to file defaults and save the
start up file so then cycles is the default.
I'm not going to do that in this case what I am going to do however is open up I'm going to discard
changes nothing that I want I'm going to open up my am animated lamp and make sure that I've got that
switched over to cycles I'm going to test to make sure it works and you can see here it's a lot grainy.
But it does settle out and we can see here this is coming along really nicely and we've got shadows
straight in.
You don't get this with eevee if we switch over to eevee.
The shadows are there but we've had to tweak and set up and this this border at the bottom how to turn
off the overlay is at the very top here.
Toggle that off and I'm also going to hide that drawing that we've got the Scene Sketch from earlier
and we can see here there's this well should be a darkened rim around the base of this lamp but it's
not there.
However when we turn on cycles we don't need to worry about that it's naturally got the right shadow
where it needs to be.
So this is one of the great things shadows as we've already discussed are much more accurate in cycles
than they are in evey.
And that theme will continue over in the next lecture.